Hello, and welcome to the Tutinama, thirteenth chapter, Of Shapoor, Commander of the Frogs, and the Snake.
Here we see Khojisteh, the wife of the merchant Miemun, while the parrot, locked away in a rather small cage, tells her the story of Shapoor the frog.
As night begins, when the sun has set, Khojisteh goes to the parrot claiming the advice he gives her is useless, stating “I conceive you are very negligent, for every night I am hearing your advice, but no advantage accrues to me from your counsel, and I cannot accomplish my desire.”
Her desire of course, being the prince who has captured her attention. The parrot, wanting to keep her faithful to her husband, and maybe just a little worried for his life, assures her his advice will come through for her if she is patient and reflects.
He relays to her the tale of Shapoor, who the parrot claims did not reflect, and was indeed “very sorry for his folly.”
You can see Khojisteh and the parrot are in a pleasant house surrounded by a lush green field, with birds above the house. The parrot is hanging from a cage above Khojisteh, while she stands below listening to him speak.
Behind Khojisteh in the wall, there appears to be many pots and other golden vases, which might display a wealth in this house that would certainly come with being a wealthy merchant, such as Khojisteh’s husband.
The cage here shows that the parrot is trapped, almost without power, while Khojisteh has control over the parrot. This would correlate with how she talks down to the parrot in the beginning of the story.
However, the parrot stands above Khojisteh, while she looks from below in rapt attention. While he may be physically trapped within the cage, and threatened my Khojisteh’s temper, he still holds power over her in the form of his tales.
As we will see in how the parrot is able to distract Khojisteh for the entire night with his story, avoiding any hostility she held at the start of the night.
Back to the tale, Shapoor was chief among the frogs, however he was also a tyrannical ruler to the subjects of the well, which the frogs occupy.
Tired of his oppression the frogs decide to banish him, and elect a new ruler from among their own group. Shapoor, now without home,or resource goes to the snake’s hole for aid.
The snake initially shows no interest in helping the frog, describing Shapoor as simply “a morsel for him to eat.” Once Shapoor reveals his circumstances, however, he suddenly becomes much more polite, not at all suspicious.
The snake lies inside the hole, while Shapoor, who looks like he might be regretting his decision, is waiting just at the entrance.
We can see the Snakes threatening posture above Shapoor, which just goes to show how easy it would be for the snake to make a meal of him. This power dynamic of the snake above Shapoor continues into the next picture.
Together they travel back to the well, and the snake then devours every frog there, leaving only Shapoor and the snake. The frog, pleased, wishes the snake well, and asks him to be on his way, however, to no one's surprise, the snake reveals his ulterior motive, and refuses to leave.
He stays in the well, not yet satisfied with his meal, and threatens Shapoor. Shapoor becomes, reasonably, afraid at this, as one would when faced with a Snake who had just eaten so many of your kind.
The snake tells Shapoor to find him more food before he becomes too hungry and decides Shapoor would be a tasty meal himself. Shapoor told him of another well, where there were many frogs.
However, instead of going to the well, Shapoor goes to a pond, and hides from the snake, and after many days of waiting, the snake leaves his well, presumably to look for more food to eat.
Shapoor was now left alone, and in a way, got what he wanted. He was able to return to his well freely, but with no people left there, it would be a lonely well indeed.
By the time the parrot had finishes his tale morning has come, and the parrot has once again delayed the Khojisteh’s attempts to leave.
The story of the frog and snake is a moral story teaching about the dangers of vengeance, and of trusting a “snake” to help you. This story, among the rest of the chapters, may give an insight into the morals of the people at the time, or at the very least, of the writer of the story.